Enable non-breaking extensibility (#382)
openid/OpenID4VCI: openid-4-verifiable-credential-issuance-1_0.md

* `credential_configuration_id`: REQUIRED when `format` parameter is not present. String specifying a unique identifier of the Credential being described in the `credential_configurations_supported` map in the Credential Issuer Metadata as defined in (#credential-issuer-parameters). The referenced object in the `credential_configurations_supported` map conveys the details, such as the format, for issuance of the requested Credential. This specification defines Credential Format specific Issuer Metadata in (#format-profiles). It MUST NOT be present if `format` parameter is present.
* `format`: REQUIRED when `credential_configuration_id` parameter is not present. String identifying the format of the Credential the Wallet needs. This Credential Format Identifier determines further claims in the authorization details object needed to identify the Credential type in the requested format. This specification defines Credential Format Profiles in (#format-profiles). It MUST NOT be present if `credential_configuration_id` parameter is present.

Additional `authorization_details` data fields MAY be defined and used,
as described in [@!RFC9396].

> The Wallet MUST ignore any unrecognized parameters.

Reviewer: Since the `authorization_details` in the authorization request is created by the wallet itself, does it make sense to state that "The Wallet MUST ignore any unrecognized parameters"? Perhaps this sentence should be in the `token-response` section, where the `authorization_details` is generated by the AS.

Author: @pmhsfelix Thanks.  I corrected the party that must ignore `authorization_details` extensions.

Reviewer: Should we also add the equivalent sentence on the `authorization_details` returned in the token response, where now is the wallet that MUST ignore unrecognized parameters put there by the AS?

> The Credential Issuer MUST ignore any unrecognized parameters.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Credential Issuer MUST ignore any unrecognized data fields.
```

Technically, the key/value pairs in the authorization details object are not parameters...

Author: This text has been superseded by other suggested changes.

> The Credential Issuer MUST ignore any unrecognized parameters.

Reviewer 2: I wonder if this extensibility is actually compliant with RAR. Section 5 of RFC 9396 states that:

> The AS MUST abort processing and respond with an error `invalid_authorization_details` to the client if [an object in the authorization_details structure] [...] is an object of known type but containing unknown fields,

Does the proposed extensibility mean that, when it comes to the `openid_credential` type, there are no "unknown fields" because by definition, any unrecognized field gets ignored and consequently all fields are expected and thus "known"?

Reviewer 3: Ouch, well spotted, I'd missed that. That's definitely awkward...

Author: Thanks for pointing out this conflict, @ju-cu.  I added language to the PR explicitly addressing this conflict.

Reviewer 4: why do we want to overwrite RAR language here though? I think we should rather stick to RAR and remove 
the following sentence:

> Additional `authorization_details` data fields MAY be defined and used
> when the `type` value is `openid_credential`.

Author: We're deviating from RAR for this type because that enables non-breaking extensibility when using the type `openid_credential`.  Without this language, if RAR if followed strictly, if a new `authorization_details` parameter is used, it would cause an error in existing deployments.  Meaning that this type would not be extensible.

Reviewer 4: @jogu's proposal is to define a claim for this authorization_details type as an alternative extensibility point

Reviewer 4: @tlodderstedt WDYT?

Reviewer 5: I don't think anything is being overwritten. If the openid_credential type is defined such that it can have additional data fields, then by definition it can have additional data fields. I think this can probably be noted with language that's less likely to be objectionable.

> Note that this effectively defines the type such that it is never considered invalid due to unknown fields.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Note that this effectively defines an authorization details type that is never considered invalid due to unknown fields.
```

* `credential_configuration_id`: REQUIRED when `format` parameter is not present. String specifying a unique identifier of the Credential being described in the `credential_configurations_supported` map in the Credential Issuer Metadata as defined in (#credential-issuer-parameters). The referenced object in the `credential_configurations_supported` map conveys the details, such as the format, for issuance of the requested Credential. This specification defines Credential Format specific Issuer Metadata in (#format-profiles). It MUST NOT be present if `format` parameter is present.
* `format`: REQUIRED when `credential_configuration_id` parameter is not present. String identifying the format of the Credential the Wallet needs. This Credential Format Identifier determines further claims in the authorization details object needed to identify the Credential type in the requested format. This specification defines Credential Format Profiles in (#format-profiles). It MUST NOT be present if `credential_configuration_id` parameter is present.

> Additional `authorization_details` parameters MAY be defined and used,
> as described in [@!RFC9396],
> including when the `type` value is `openid_credential`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Additional `authorization_details` parameters MAY be defined and used,
when the `type` value is `openid_credential`, as described in [@!RFC9396].
```
I don't think we want to allow new `type` values? even if we do, this text should be clearer if we allow new type values or more extensions to type openid_credential

Author: The spec says this, so it's already clear what the type value must be when using it:
* `type`: REQUIRED. String that determines the authorization details type. It MUST be set to `openid_credential` for the purpose of this specification.

Therefore, I believe it was unnecessary for me to say anything about the type value.  I propose to simply delete the qualifier, so the sentence is more parallel to other such sentences in the spec, and simply becomes:
> Additional `authorization_details` parameters MAY be defined and used, as described in [@!RFC9396].

* `format`: REQUIRED when `credential_configuration_id` parameter is not present. String identifying the format of the Credential the Wallet needs. This Credential Format Identifier determines further claims in the authorization details object needed to identify the Credential type in the requested format. This specification defines Credential Format Profiles in (#format-profiles). It MUST NOT be present if `credential_configuration_id` parameter is present.

Additional `authorization_details` data fields MAY be defined and used
when the `type` value is `openid_credential`.
Note that when using this type, this overrides the language

> "The AS MUST abort processing and respond with an error ``invalid_authorization_details` to the client if [an object in the authorization_details structure] ...

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
"The AS MUST abort processing and respond with an error `invalid_authorization_details` to the client if [an object in the authorization_details structure] ...
```

> Additional `authorization_details` data fields MAY be defined and used
> when the `type` value is `openid_credential`.
> Note that when using this type, this overrides the language
> "The AS MUST abort processing and respond with an error `invalid_authorization_details` to the client if [an object in the authorization_details structure] ...
> is an object of known type but containing unknown fields" in [@!RFC9396].
> The Credential Issuer MUST ignore any unrecognized parameters.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

Author: Brian's suggested change superseded the one above.

> Note that when using this type, this overrides the language
> "The AS MUST abort processing and respond with an error `invalid_authorization_details` to the client if [an object in the authorization_details structure] ...
> is an object of known type but containing unknown fields" in [@!RFC9396].
> The Credential Issuer MUST ignore any unrecognized parameters.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Note that this effectively defines the type such that it is never considered invalid due to unknown fields.
```

Note: When processing the Authorization Request, the Credential Issuer MUST take into account that the `issuer_state` is not guaranteed to originate from this Credential Issuer in all circumstances. It could have been injected by an attacker.

> Additional Authorization Request parameters MAY be defined and used,

Reviewer 6: do we really need to state this again?

Reviewer 3: Definitely not technically necessary, but I think doing so will help implementers that aren't that familiar with OAuth2.

When the Pre-Authorized Grant Type is used, it is RECOMMENDED that the Credential Issuer issues an Access Token valid only for the Credentials indicated in the Credential Offer (see (#credential-offer)). The Wallet SHOULD obtain a separate Access Token if it wants to request issuance of any Credentials that were not included in the Credential Offer, but were discoverable from the Credential Issuer's `credential_configurations_supported` metadata parameter.

> Additional Token Request parameters MAY be defined and used,

Reviewer 6: do we really need to state this again?

  
Note: The `credential_identifiers` parameter cannot be used when the `scope` parameter is used in the Authorization Request to request issuance of a Credential.

Additional Token Response parameters MAY be defined and used,
as described in [@!RFC6749].

> The Wallet MUST ignore any unrecognized parameters.

Reviewer 2: Does that include unknown data fields in an `openid_credential` within the `authorization_details` structure?

RFC 9396, Section 7.1 states that the AS may enrich `authorization_details` in the Token Response. Since we added extensibility for the `openid_credential` type, I think we should be clear on how the Wallet must treat a response with unknown data fields. We can add a normative statement here or under #(authorization-details. @pmhsfelix had the same concern [in another comment](https://github.com/openid/OpenID4VCI/pull/382#discussion_r1757151581) and suggested that the Wallet MUST ignore any unrecognized data fields.

Author: I'm not sure what you mean by "unknown data fields" or where you'd like them to be ignored when they occur.  Can you maybe give an example?

FYI, I believe I addressed [@pmhsfelix's comment](https://github.com/openid/OpenID4VCI/pull/382#discussion_r1757151581) in [this commit](https://github.com/openid/OpenID4VCI/pull/382/commits/6659b29032ef359be0f87029366e76f45907420a) in which I corrected the party that must ignore the not-understood parameter.

Reviewer: `authorization_details` can be used in *two* directions:
- On an authorization request, produced by the Wallet and consumed by the AS.
- On a token response, produced by the AS and consumed by the Wallet.
The later usage of `authorization_details` doesn't seem to be covered by the PR, i.e., there isn't any mention to the Wallet ignoring extra fields in the `authorization_details` produced by the AS and present in the *token response*.

Detail: regarding the use of `authorization_details` in the authorization request, should it be the *Credential Issuer* or the *Authorization Server* that must ignore them.

Author: If you have better text in mind @pmhsfelix please make a change suggestion that I can apply to the PR.  Thanks.

Reviewer 2: @selfissued 
I can try to elaborate more on the issue. Using RAR, an Authorization Server MUST return `authorization_details` in the Token Response (see [RFC 9396 Section 7](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc9396#name-token-response)). The `authorization_details` in the Token Response are not necessarily the same as in the Authorization or Token Request (see [RFC 9396 Section 7.1](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc9396#name-enriched-authorization-deta)). Technically, with the extension mechanism for the `openid_credential` type, there could be a discrepancy between the Wallet and the Authorization Server, where the Authorization Server enriches an `openid_credential` type in the `authorization_details` array of a Token Response with extra fields that the Wallet does not understand (RFC 9396 assumes that all possible fields of a type are known upfront, which is not the case here). To avoid any undefined behavior, I suggest, that the Wallet must ignore any unknown fields of an `openid_credential` type in an `authorization_details` array in a Token Response.

Reviewer 2: To be clear, the "unrecognized parameters" that the Wallet must ignore are not only parameters of the Token Response (as defined in RFC 6749) but also unrecognized data fields of the `openid_credential` type defined in this spec. The former is already defined, and the letter should also be defined imo.

> The Wallet MUST ignore any unrecognized parameters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Wallet MUST ignore any unrecognized parameters in the Token Response.
An included `authorization_details` parameter MAY also have additional data fields defined and used
when the `type` value is `openid_credential`.
The Wallet MUST ignore any unrecognized data fields in the `authorization_details` present in the Token Response.

* `jwt`: A JWT [@!RFC7519] is used for proof of possession. When a `proof_type` parameter in a `proof` object is set to `jwt`, it MUST also contain a `jwt` parameter that includes a JWT as defined in (#jwt-proof-type). When a `proofs` object is using a `jwt` proof type, it MUST include a `jwt` parameter with its value being an array of JWTs, where each JWT is formed as defined in (#jwt-proof-type).
* `ldp_vp`: A W3C Verifiable Presentation object signed using the Data Integrity Proof [@VC_Data_Integrity] as defined in [@VC_DATA_2.0] or [@VC_DATA] is used for proof of possession. When a `proof_type` parameter in a `proof` object is set to `ldp_vp`, it MUST also contain an `ldp_vp` parameter that includes a [W3C Verifiable Presentation](https://www.w3.org/TR/vc-data-model-2.0/#presentations-0) defined in (#ldp-vp-proof-type). When a `proofs` object is using a `ldp_vp` proof type, it MUST include an `ldp_vp` parameter with its value being an array of [W3C Verifiable Presentations](https://www.w3.org/TR/vc-data-model-2.0/#presentations-0), where each of these W3C Verifiable Presentation is formed as defined in (#ldp-vp-proof-type).

Additional proof types MAY be defined and used.

> Proof types used MUST be understood by both the Wallet and the Credential Issuer.

Reviewer 7: Not that I don't agree with this, I am just curious to see why this text is formulated in this way as this one breaks the pattern of "receiver decides".

I ask because a Credential Issuer can contain a wide set of optional `proof_type`s, and I expected a sentence like "Wallet MUST ignore any unrecognized proof types from Credential Issuer Metadata."
"Credential Issuer MUST reject any Credential Request containing an unrecognized proof type."

Author: The normal "MUST ignore any unrecognized parameters" language would be wrong here, because it's a security issue if you can't verify the proof.  But this is nonetheless an extension point, so I wanted to be explicit about the rules for handling this kind of extension.

Reviewer 7: Understood. I just wondered because unilateral extension where a Credential Issuer defines a new proof type the spec and offers more to a wallet that is oblivious to the extension in my mind did not fit "MUST be understood by both"

Reviewer 4: we should discuss this. I agree the MUST here feels different

Reviewer 5: I also agree with the intent of this MUST text. Maybe expand it a bit more to better describe what using a proof type entails?:

```suggestion
Proof types MUST be recognized and supported by both the Wallet and the Credential Issuer in order to bind an issued Credential to specific cryptographic key material.
```
